# Brute-Force-Algorithm-vs.-Euclidian-Algorithm

This is the prompt that was given to us for the programming assignment in class:

1.	Generate 1,000 pairs of random integers.
2.	Run the brute-force algorithm (version 1: starting from 1) to calculate the greatest common divisor (GCD) of each pair.
3.	Generate two Excel/CSV spreadsheets:
4.	Run the brute-force algorithm (version 2: starting from the smaller input) on all 1,000 pairs generated in Step 1, and then generate BF_v2_Results.xls(x)/csv and BF_v2_Statistics.xls(x)/csv.
5.	Run the original Euclid’s algorithm in Lecture-1 on all 1,000 pairs generated in Step 1, and then generate OE_Results.xls(x)/csv and OE_Statistics.xls(x)/csv.
6.	Run the second version of Euclid’s algorithm in Lecture-1 on all 1,000 pairs generated in Step 1, and then generate SE_Results.xls(x)/csv and SE_Statistics.xls(x)/csv.
7.	Generate a text file name Conclusions.txt with the following contents:
(1)	Out of 1,000 pairs of integers, brute-force (v2) outperformed brute-force (v1) in xx pairs; and the average saved time for these x1 pairs of integers was xx1 milliseconds.
(2)	Out of 1,000 pairs of integers, the original version of Euclid outperformed brute-force (v1) in xx pairs; and the average saved time for these x2 pairs of integers was xx2 milliseconds.
(3)	Out of 1,000 pairs of integers, the original version of Euclid outperformed brute-force (v2) in xx pairs; and the average saved time for these x3 pairs of integers was xx3 milliseconds.
(4)	Out of 1,000 pairs of integers, the second version of Euclid outperformed the original version of Euclid in xx pairs; and the average saved time for these x1 pairs of integers was xx1 milliseconds.
(5)	Out of 1,000 pairs of integers, the second version of Euclid outperformed brute-force (v1) in xx pairs; and the average saved time for these x2 pairs of integers was xx2 milliseconds.
(6)	Out of 1,000 pairs of integers, the second version of Euclid outperformed brute-force (v2) in xx pairs; and the average saved time for these x3 pairs of integers was xx3 milliseconds.


This is how the program is ran:
The program is run by removing the comment blocks ("/* */") of the algorithm you want to use. When switching between algorithms, make sure to add the comment blocks back to the algorithms you are not using. Then, execute the program. The spreadsheets are generated by the program.
